# Notes on the document and OCR alignment problem

## Problem definition

We have a document in the form of an image
described as $d\in\mathbb{R}^{H\times W\times 3}$.

### Visual Analysis

- A document layout analyzer produces bounding boxes of significant regions of the document.  

- The result of a document layout analyzer is a collection of bounding boxes.  Each bbox is $(x_0, y_0, x_1, y_1, \mathrm{label})$.

$\newcommand{\LayoutTree}{\mathbf{LT}}$

- Organize this into a layout tree according to containment relations.  Call $\LayoutTree$ the layout tree.

- Within each node of the $\LayoutTree$ has the children nodes, which are sorted by a _reading order_.  This corresponds to the ordering of how they appear in the OCR result.

The leaf nodes in $\LayoutTree$ are also annotated by text content (as part of the OCR during document layout analysis).

### Textual Analysis

An OCR analyzer converts the document image $d$ to markdown source, which is a sequence of characters with the standard markdown annotations for heading, tables, images, etc.

$$
\newcommand{\MD}{\mathbf{MD}}
\MD \in\mathbf{Char}^*
$$

### Multimodal tokens

We can tokenize the document $d$ into two types of tokens:

$\newcommand{\VT}{\mathrm{VT}}$
$\newcommand{\TT}{\mathrm{TT}}$

- visual tokens: bounding boxes in the $\LayoutTree$; call them $\VT$
- text tokens: natural language tokens of the markdown text $\MD$.  Call them $\TT$

## The alignment problem

We want to perform alignment mapping between $\LayoutTree$ and $\MD$.  Let's formulate the problem more precisely.

